# Brain-Tumor-Segmentation-and-Classification
<p>Brain tumor still proves to be one of the major causes of death in the field of cancer. The chances of a person surviving more than 10 years after getting a brain tumor is quite low with different ranges as per age, country and other factors. Prediction of the tumor is a large topic with various algorithms and techniques being used such as imaging methods, deep learning and machine learning models. The models used in the majority of the work doesn't have much comparison with other models to hold the ground and also has insufficient accuracy and other evaluation parameters. Also, the lack of post-processing of the data makes the resultant data unclear and the existence and location of the tumor unclear. Thus, this leads to the need of a system which compare various major models to get the most accurate model with a verification method being applied to it and post process the resultant data so as to make the resultant image clearer and easy to understand the existence of tumor and its location.
<br>In this work, we propose a comparison of the highly accurate machine learning classifiers, Logistic Regression, Support Vector Classifier, K Nearest Neighbour, Random Forest and Decision Tree to find the most accurate of the model with MRI brain image datasets for training, testing the model and verifying the model accuracy rank. We also introduced a modified Convolutional Neural Network as suggested by AutoKeras to get better accuracy. We then perform segmentation on the positive tumor datasets using K means Clustering and Mini Batch K Means Clustering which clarifies the existence and location of the tumor. Further the segmented image undergoes 4 major morphological operations: erosion, dilation, intensity linear transformation and de-noisification so as to make the resultant image clearer. The parameters used for comparing the validity of the work would be model Accuracy, Precision, Recall, F-score, time taken and a basic comparison of the resultant images.</p>
